docs: further clarify and reinforce the performance impacts of single page apps (SPAs) (#11637)
sveltejs/kit: documentation/docs/25-build-and-deploy/55-single-page-apps.md

title: Single-page apps
---

> You can turn a SvelteKit app into a fully client-rendered single-page app (SPA) by specifying a _fallback page_ that will be served for any URLs that can't be served via another means such as by returning a prerendered page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can turn a SvelteKit app into a fully client-rendered single-page app (SPA) by specifying a _fallback page_. This page will be served for any URLs that can't be served by other means such as returning prerendered pages.
```

> > SPA mode is highly discouraged for public-facing websites (i.e. not behind a login or only used internally at a company). It has a large performance impact by forcing two network round trips before rendering can begin. This may be acceptable if you are serving a corporate application from the local network where the network round trip is very fast, but probably is not for most websites on the internet especially when considering the latency of mobile devices. It also harms SEO by increasing the likelihood that your site will be downranked for performance (SPAs are much more likely to fail core web vitals), excluding search engines that don't render JS, and causing your site to receive less frequent updates from those that do. And finally, it makes your app inaccessible to users if JavaScript fails or is disabled (which happens [more often than you probably think](https://kryogenix.org/code/browser/everyonehasjs.html)).

Reviewer 2: Now that this section is so long I'm wondering if we should remove the `>`, i.e. not make it one big red box.

Author: I just tried both locally and think the `>` really is appropriate. It's an aside/warning and looks more consistent with how we treat that content elsewhere to leave it in the box. It's quite easy to gloss over it otherwise, so I think it'd be going backwards in terms of educating users to remove it from a box

>

> > You can avoid these drawbacks on a given page by [prerendering it](#prerendering-individual-pages). You should thus prerender as many pages as possible when using SPA mode — especially your homepage. If you can prerender all pages, you can simply use [static site generation](adapter-static) rather than a SPA. If you cannot, you should strongly consider using an adapter which supports server side rendering — SvelteKit offers officially supported adapters for multiple different providers that offer free SSR hosting for sites below a certain threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can avoid these drawbacks on a given page by [prerendering it](#prerendering-individual-pages). You should thus prerender as many pages as possible when using SPA mode — especially your homepage. If you can prerender all pages, you can simply use [static site generation](adapter-static) rather than a SPA. Otherwise, you should strongly consider using an adapter which supports server side rendering — SvelteKit offers officially supported adapters for multiple different providers that offer free SSR hosting for sites below a certain threshold.
```

## Usage

> First, disable SSR for the pages you don't want to prerender. These pages will be seved via a fallback page. E.g. to serve all pages via the fallback by default, you can update the root layout as shown below. You should [opt back into prerendering individual pages and directories](#prerendering-individual-pages) where possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, disable SSR for the pages you don't want to prerender. These pages will be served via a fallback page. E.g. to serve all pages via the fallback by default, you can update the root layout as shown below. You should [opt back into prerendering individual pages and directories](#prerendering-individual-pages) where possible.
```

```js
/// file: src/routes/+layout.js
export const ssr = false;
```

> If you don't have any server-side logic (i.e. `+page.server.js`, `+layout.server.js` or `+server.js` files) you can use [`adapter-static`](adapter-static) to create your SPA by adding a _fallback page_. Install `adapter-static` with `npm i -D @sveltejs/adapter-static` and add it to your `svelte.config.js` with the `fallback` option:

Reviewer 2: This reads a lot better now 👍

export const ssr = false;
```

> > SPA mode is highly discouraged: it destroys performance by forcing two network round trips before rendering can begin; harms SEO by downranking your page which is likely to fail core web vitals, excluding search engines that don't render JS, and causing your site to receive less frequent updates from those that do; and, finally, it makes your app inaccessible to users if JavaScript fails or is disabled (which happens [more often than you probably think](https://kryogenix.org/code/browser/everyonehasjs.html)).

Reviewer 2: This is too blunt - if you create an internal app you don't care about these things, we should clarify in which situations SPAs are discouraged. I also fear that the language might put people off ("destroy" etc) thinking "oh so SvelteKit is not for me thanks I'll look elsewhere to create my SPA then" which neither helps their web vitals nor us. In general I don't think that more drastic language will help people using this in less situations, instead we need to make this easier discoverable through for example warnings which link back to the documentation.

```suggestion
> For public-facing websites (i.e. not behind a login or only used internally at a company), SPA mode is highly discouraged. It slows down performance by forcing two network round trips before rendering can begin, which harms SEO by downranking your page which is more likely to fail core web vitals. It also excludes search engines that don't render JS, and causes your site to receive less frequent updates from those that do. Finally, it makes your app inaccessible to users if JavaScript fails or is disabled (which happens [more often than you probably think](https://kryogenix.org/code/browser/everyonehasjs.html)).
```

Author: I just pushed an update that uses a lot of the changes you suggested here. Your suggestion had "which" twice in once sentence and I wanted to avoid that. I reworded a couple of other things as well to tone things down and incorporate some of your ideas

>

> > You can avoid these drawbacks on a given page by [prerendering it](#prerendering-individual-pages). You should thus prerender as many pages as possible when using SPA mode — especially your homepage. If you can prerender all pages, you can simply use [static site generation](adapter-static) rather than a SPA. If you cannot, you should strongly consider using a different adapter.

Reviewer 2: The "consider using a different adapter" sentence is a bit confusing, since this page is generally about SPA mode and not about SPA mode in relation to adapter static. Furthermore, it's duplicative to the next paragraph.

Author: I just gave another read to the intro section and it's pretty confusing for a couple reasons. One is that it says you can make a SPA with fallback page with any adapter, but I don't think that's true? Most adapters do not have a `fallback` option. It also split the setup instructions with showing how to disable SSR in the intro and the rest of the setup under "Usage". I've tried to restructure it to put all the setup under "Usage" now
